feat: add jetton cookbook (#380)
tact-lang/tact-docs: pages/cookbook/jettons.mdx

```tact
message(0xf8a7ea5) TokenTransfer {
    queryId: Int as uint64;
    amount: Int as coins;
    destination: Address;
    excessesDestination: Address;
    customPayload: Cell? = null;
    forwardTonAmount: Int as coins;
    forwardPayload: Slice as remaining;
}

receive("send") {
    let myJettonWalletAddress = calculateJettonWalletAddress(myAddress(), self.jettonMasterAddress, self.jettonWalletCode);
    send(SendParameters{
        to: myJettonWalletAddress,
        value: ton("0.05"),
        body: TokenTransfer{
            queryId: 42,
            amount: jettonAmount, // jetton amount you want to transfer
            destination: msg.userAddress, // address you want to transfer jettons. Note that this is address of jetton wallet owner, not jetton wallet itself
            excessesDestination: msg.userAddress, // address were left toncoins will go
            customPayload: null, // in most cases will be null and can be omited. Needed for custom logic on jettons itself
            forwardTonAmount: 1, // amount that will be transferred with TransferNotification. Needed for custom logic execution like in example below

>             forwardPayload: beginCell().storeBool(false).endCell().beginParse(), // TODO: this is so gas consuming, maybe there is another way? Or use generic (TBD)? Or there is better way to just left it

Reviewer: You might try to pre-compute the Cell with that single bit as a Base64 string, then put it into the comptime function [`cell()`](https://docs.tact-lang.org/ref/core-comptime#cell), then use `.beginParse()` on it:

```tact
// beginCell().storeBool(false).endCell(),  but precomputed!
forwardPayload: cell("te6cckEBAQEAAwAAAUD20kA0").beginParse(),
````

In 1.5.0 there would be a similar comptime function `slice()`, which would be even more handy (no need for `.beginParse()`)

Reviewer 2: I think it would be nicer to have smth like `builder as remaining` to have possibility to store builder not cell|slice

Reviewer 2: But nvm, will leave that as it is

        }.toCell(),
    });
}
```

## Burning jetton

```tact
message(0x595f07bc) TokenBurn {
    queryId: Int as uint64;
    amount: Int as coins;
    excessesDestination: Address;
    customPayload: Cell? = null;
}

receive("burn") {
    let myJettonWalletAddress = calculateJettonWalletAddress(myAddress(), self.jettonMasterAddress, self.jettonWalletCode);
    send(SendParameters{
        to: myJettonWalletAddress,
        body: TokenBurn{
            queryId: 42,
            amount: jettonAmount, // jetton amount you want to burn
            excessesDestination: someAddress, // address were left toncoins will go
            customPayload: null, // in most cases will be null and can be omited. Needed for custom logic on jettons itself
        }.toCell(),
    });
}
```

## USDT jetton operations

> USDT operations remains the same except one difference - `JettonWalletData` will have the following structure:
> ```tact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operations with USDT (on TON) remain the same, except that the  `JettonWalletData` will have the following structure:

```tact
```

# Fungible Tokens (Jettons)

import { Callout } from 'nextra-theme-docs';

This page lists common examples of working with [jettons](https://docs.ton.org/develop/dapps/asset-processing/jettons).

## Accepting jetton transfer

Transfer notification message have the following structure.

```tact
message(0x7362d09c) TransferNotification {
    queryId: Int as uint64;
    jettonAmount: Int as coins;
    fromAddress: Address;
    forwardPayload: Slice as remaining;

> }

Reviewer 3: I think it'll be better to name these fields as they're named in the [standard](https://github.com/ton-blockchain/TEPs/blob/master/text/0074-jettons-standard.md) itself, e.g. `amount` and `sender` instead of `jettonAmount` and `fromAddress`. This applies to other defined messages too.

Reviewer 2: Resolved. Named message also as in TLB, with Jetton prefix

```

Use [receiver](/book/receive) function to accept token notification message.

<Callout type="warning" emoji="⚠️">

  Sender of transfer notification must be validated!

</Callout>

Validation can be done using jetton wallet state init and calculating jetton address.
Note, that notifications are coming from YOUR contract's jetton wallet, so [`myAddress()`](/ref/core-common#myaddress) should be used in owner address field.

> Wallet initial data layout is shown below, but sometimes it can differ.

Reviewer 3: we should also mention that in many common cases it's enough to add some contract storage field like `myJettonWallet` and calculate the address offchain upon deploying the contract. Calculating it on-chain every time is not that good in terms of gas usage and it'll also require customizations for jettons with modified code.

it's already mentioned for sending jettons below, but it should also be mentioned here.

Reviewer 2: Resolved

    jettonWalletCode: Cell;
}

fun calculateJettonWalletAddress(ownerAddress: Address, jettonMasterAddress: Address, jettonWalletCode: Cell): Address {
    let initData = JettonWalletData{
        balance: 0,
        ownerAddress,
        jettonMasterAddress,
        jettonWalletCode,
    };

    return contractAddress(StateInit{code: jettonWalletCode, data: initData.toCell()});
}

contract Sample {
    jettonWalletCode: Cell;
    jettonMasterAddress: Address;

    init(jettonWalletCode: Cell, jettonMasterAddress: Address) {
        self.jettonWalletCode = jettonWalletCode;
        self.jettonMasterAddress = jettonMasterAddress;
    }

    receive(msg: TransferNotification) {
        let myJettonWalletAddress = calculateJettonWalletAddress(myAddress(), self.jettonMasterAddress, self.jettonWalletCode);
        require(sender() == myJettonWalletAddress, "Notification not from your jetton wallet!");

        // your logic of processing token notification
    }
}
```

## Sending jetton transfer

To send jetton transfer use [`send(){:tact}`](/book/send) function.
If you want to have full control over the sending process and require some complex logic for it,

> use [`nativeSendMessage(){:tact}`](/ref/core-advanced#nativesendmessage) function.

Reviewer 3: shouldn't we recommend using `send()` here instead of `nativeSendMessage()`?

Reviewer 2: Removed completely this paragraph, User will follow nativeSendMessage in /book/send if he realy needs to

Note that `myJettonWalletAddress` may also be stored in contract storage to use less gas in every transaction.

```tact
message(0xf8a7ea5) TokenTransfer {
    queryId: Int as uint64;
    amount: Int as coins;
    destination: Address;

>     excessesDestination: Address;

Reviewer 3: those two are actually optional in specifications of the standard (`MsgAddress` can be null address). Use `Address?` here to match the original TL-B type (it allows null addressess iirc)

Reviewer 2: Resolved

    customPayload: Cell? = null;
    forwardTonAmount: Int as coins;
    forwardPayload: Slice as remaining;
}

receive("send") {
    let myJettonWalletAddress = calculateJettonWalletAddress(myAddress(), self.jettonMasterAddress, self.jettonWalletCode);
    send(SendParameters{
        to: myJettonWalletAddress,
        value: ton("0.05"),
        body: TokenTransfer{
            queryId: 42,
            amount: jettonAmount, // jetton amount you want to transfer
            destination: msg.userAddress, // address you want to transfer jettons. Note that this is address of jetton wallet owner, not jetton wallet itself
            excessesDestination: msg.userAddress, // address were left toncoins will go
            customPayload: null, // in most cases will be null and can be omited. Needed for custom logic on jettons itself

>             forwardTonAmount: 1, // amount that will be transferred with TransferNotification. Needed for custom logic execution like in example below

Reviewer 3: we should also mention that the notification won't be sent if this amount is `0`.

Reviewer 2: resolved

>             forwardPayload: cell("te6cckEBAQEAAwAAAUD20kA0").beginParse(), // precomputed beginCell().storeBool(false).endCell()

Reviewer 3: we can use `slice()` now or even better for this case - `rawSlice()`: https://github.com/tact-lang/tact/pull/787

Reviewer 2: Resolved

Reviewer 2: got a question about rawSlice implementation
right now it is generating 
```
slice __gen_slice_slice_5dcf118847f69faec2c995cb99acf92d70cfe3223342f66c96b504350c5d5b19() asm """B{b5ee9c72410101010003000001f8f0f88c0c} B>boc <s PUSHSLICE""";
```
it work but seems not like FunC's "F"s
"F"s produces x{f} PUSHSLICE

Reviewer 3: they are pushing the same slice, just in different notations

        }.toCell(),
    });
}
```

## Burning jetton

```tact
message(0x595f07bc) TokenBurn {
    queryId: Int as uint64;
    amount: Int as coins;

>     excessesDestination: Address;

Reviewer 3: this also should be `Address?`

Reviewer 2: resolved
